Building A Great Work Culture (Inspire, Empower And Collaborate)
----------------------------------------------------------------

:tags: Archive
:category: Blog

By `Esther Nam </blog/author/esther/>`_ posted May 16, 2012, 6 a.m.

:note:[Ed. note: Thanks to Pam and Angie for letting us repost this from `the
Women 2.0
blog <http://www.women2.com/building-a-great-work-culture-inspire-empower-and-collaborate/>`_!]

**There are three key ingredients to a great culture boosting
activity.**

By Pam Selle (Developer, Paperless Post)

|image0|\ One of the things I like most about `**my current
workplace** <http://www.paperlesspost.com/>`_ is the culture. In an
aggressive tech hiring environment, buffing up on how to build a great
culture is definitely worth the time. At Paperless Post, we recently had
a Hack Day (or, per the company mascot, "Stampy Day"). Here's what it
was, why it was fun, and why you should probably bring it to your
company too - but more than that, how the underlying culture and ethic
is great for any company.

Planning For Greatness: Encouraging Creativity
----------------------------------------------

There are three key ingredients to a great culture boosting activity -
that the activity inspires employees concerning their work, empowers
them to take ownership and control of part of the product, and that the
activity allows company members to collaborate, communicate, and
otherwise work together toward a goal.

Encourage And Empower: Hack Day
-------------------------------

Hack Day is an example of a culture boosting activity - a day taken off
from the regular run of the business to focus on other "hacks" or
projects brought by the team. These can be dreamed up features, new
design items, brainstorming new approaches... a company Hack Day is
related to the company, but that can include writing a company chatbot
or designing costumes for the company mascot. It can be adding a new
feature that saves 10 people 5 hours a week... each. The project can be
as big, small, ambitious, or fun as team members want it to be. The very
nature of Hack Day encourages creativity and ownership of a project,
both inspiring employees to dream up something for the business and
empowering them to be in control of the outcome.

Empower And Collaborate: Who should participate in your Hack Day
----------------------------------------------------------------

Everyone. One of the best, most fun features of our company Hack Day was
that it included everyone. Now, not all companies are small enough to be
able to do this. But think about spreading Hack Day beyond the scope of
your dev team. Can you involve Product? The Designers? Support? More
ideas makes it more fun. Encourage project members to take ownership of
their project, give them free reign to do what they like, and see who
matches up across teams.

Put It Together: How does Hack Day work?
----------------------------------------

Show up. Let people find people to work with. Work on things. Repeat.
This is the fun part, and there's not really a wrong way to do it,
except by being too uptight about it.

Afterburn: What do you do afterwards?
-------------------------------------

Have a celebration the next work day to talk about each other's projects
over lunch. Another great thing about Hack Day is that it doesn't matter
if you don't finish. Remember, it's Hack Day! Low stress. It's all about
fun and creativity. Eeveryone talks about what they worked on, shows off
what they did do, talks about the hurdles and what they learned. And
everyone listening gets to see the smart, talented people they work with
show off their stuff.

ROI: How does it help?
----------------------

The three key components of Hack Day, or any company culture booster,
are that it is inspiring, empowering, and encourages collaboration. When
these three ingredients come together, it results in something that at
the end of the day will make your employees say “I’m glad I work here.” 

** |image1|\ *About the guest blogger: Pam Selle is a developer at
`Paperless Post <http://www.paperlesspost.com/>`_, bringing beautiful
online stationery to users. She is involved in the Ruby, Python, and
open source communities. A teacher at GirlDevelopIt and PyStarPhilly,
she is passionate about opening web technologies to all and generally
making the world a more fun place to live and work. Follow her on
Twitter at `@pamasaur <https://twitter.com/#%21/pamasaur>`_.*

.. |image0| image:: http://www.women2.com/wp-content/uploads/pam_selle.jpg
.. |image1| image:: http://www.women2.com/wp-content/uploads/125x125_Pam_Selle.jpg
